# Release 1.3.0 (2025-04-23)

## Platform

- Upgraded from llvm17 to llvm19.1.7.
- Support for rocm 6.3.1.
- Support for `gfx902` architecture.
- Enterprise edition: Support for new architectures:
    - `gfx908`
    - `gfx90a`
    - `gfx942`

## Packaging

- Packages for Rocky9 are now available.
- Package repos for Ubuntu and Rocky9 to simplify
  installation/upgrades.

## New Features

- Added `scaleenv`, a new and much easier way to [use SCALE](../tutorials/how-to-use.md).
- Support for simulating a warp size of 32 even on wave64 platforms, fixing
  many projects on such platforms.
- Support for `bfloat16`.
- Compatibility improvements with non-cmake buildsystems.
- Added `SCALE_CUDA_VERSION` environment variable to tell SCALE to impersonate a
  specific version of CUDA.
- `SCALE_EXCEPTIONS` now supports a non-fatal mode.

## Library wrappers

- Added most of cuFFT.
- Added lots more cuSolver and cuSPARSE.
- Filled in some missing NVTX APIs.
- Added homeopathic quantities of nvtx3.

## Library

- Lazy-initialisation of primary contexts now works properly, fixing some
  subtle lifecycle issues.
- Added some missing undocumented headers like `texture_types.h`.
- Added the IPC memory/event APIs
- Added many multi-GPU APIs
- Added `cuMemcpyPeer`/`cuMemcpyPeerAsync`.
- Rewritten device allocator to work around HSA bugs and performance issues.
- Fix a crash when initialising SCALE with many GPUs with huge amounts of memory.
- Added CUDA IPC APIs. Among other things, this enables CUDA-MPI
  applications to work, including AMGX's distributed mode.
- Fixed lots of multi-GPU brokenness.
- Implemented the `CU_CTX_SYNC_MEMOPS` context flag.
- Fixed accuracy issues in some of the CUDA Math APIs.
- fp16 headers no longer produce warnings for projects that include them without
  `-isystem`.
- Improved performance and correctness of cudaMemcpy/memset.
- Fix subtle issues with pointer attribute APIs.
- Improvements to C89 compatibility of headers.
- Added more Cooperative Groups APIs.
- Support for `grid_sync()`.
- Fix some wave64 issues with `cooperative_groups.h`.

## Compiler

- `__launch_bounds__` now works correctly, significantly improving performance.
- Device atomics are now much more efficient.
- Denorm-flushing optimisations are no longer skipped when they aren't
  supposed to be.
- Ability to use DPP to optimise warp shuffles in some cases. Currently,
  this only works if the individual shfl is provably equivalent to a DPP op,
  not when loop analysis would be required. `__shfl_xor` is your friend.

## NVCC Interface

- Corrected the behaviour of the nvcc `-odir` flag in during dependency generation.
- Added the nvcc `-prec-sqrt` and `-prec-div` flags.
- `use_fast_math` now matches nivida's behaviour, instead of mapping to clang's
  `-ffast-math`, which does too much.
- `--device-c` no longer inappropriately triggers the linker.
- Newly-supported `nvcc` flags:
    * `-arch=native`
    * `-jump-table-density` (ignored)
    * `-compress-mode` (ignored)
    * `-split-compile-extended` (ignored)

## NVCC Semantics

- Support broken template code in more situations in nvcc mode.
- Allow invalid const-correctness in unexpanded template code in nvcc mode.
- Allow trailing commas in template argument lists in nvcc mode.
- Fix a parser crash when explicitly calling `operator<<<int>()` in CUDA mode.
- Fix a crash when using `--compiler-options` to pass huge numbers of
  options through to `-Wl`.

## Diagnostics

- Warning for unused PTX variables
- Error for attempts to return the carry bit (undefined behaviour on NVIDIA).
- Compiler diagnostic to catch some undefined behaviour patterns with CUDA
  atomics.

## PTX

- New instructions supported
    - `sm_100` variants of `redux`.
    - Mixed-precision `add/sub/fma` FP instructions.
    - `membar`
    - `bar.warp.sync`
    - `fence` (partial)
    - `mma` (software emulated)
    - `wmma` (software emulated)
- Fixed parsing of hex-float constants.
- Support for PTX `C` constraints (dynamic asm strings).
- f16/bf16 PTX instructions no longer depend on the corresponding C++ header.
- asm blocks can now refer to variables declared in other asm blocks, including
  [absolutely cursed](https://gist.github.com/ChrisKitching/73f66a422af926a6dbdcd045442c4440) patterns.
- Fixed an issue where template-dependent asm strings were mishandled.
- Fixed various parsing issues (undocumented syntax quirks etc.).
- Fixed a crash when trying to XOR floating point numbers together.

## Thirdparty Project demos

Things that now appear to work include:

- CUDA-aware MPI
- MAGMA
- whisper.cpp
- TCLB
