# Release 1.4.2 (2025-09-19)

## Platform/Packaging

- Simplified packaging/installation: removed dependency on rocm package repos. Removal of more rocm components from the package is in development.
- Using rocm 6.4.1 versions of rocBLAS etc.

## Compiler Diagnostics

- Warn about PTX instruction flags that don't actually do anything.
- Warn about PTX variable declarations leaking into the enclosing function, since this may cause ptxas failures
  when building for NVIDIA.
- Warn about passing a generic address space C++ pointer into an asm operand for a non-generic PTX memory instruction if the
  corresponding addrspacecast is not a no-op.
- Detect when the user seems to have gotten `cvta.to` and `cvta` mixed up.
- Cleanly reject `.param` address space in PTX: using that in inline asm is undefined behaviour.
- Diagnose accidental address operands (eg. use of `[]` for `cvta` is a common screwup).
- Proper errors for integer width mismatch in PTX address space conversions. Implicitly truncating pointers is *bad*.
- Disallow overloads that differ only in return type and sideness in clang-dialect mode.
- Implement a fancier-than-nvcc edition of `-Wdefault-stream-launch`, warning about implicit use of the legacy default stream via any launch mechanism, with opt-in support for warning about any use of the default stream (ptds or not).
- PTX diagnositcs now correctly point at the offending operand, where applicable.
- Correctly report source locations for diagnostics in PTX blocks that use `C` constraints.

## Compiler Optimisation

- Use DPP to optimise applicable `__shfl*/__reduce*` calls, and loops that perform common reduction/cumsum idioms.
- Improved instruction selection for shared-memory reads of sub-word types.
- Vectorisation support for `__shfl*` (eg. turns multiple i8 shuffles into an i32 or i64 shuffle). Particularly useful for exploiting architectures that have support for i64 shuffles.
- Ability to move extending conversions across shuffles, to avoid shuffling useless bits.
- Don't generate redundant warp reductions prior to uniform atomic ops.
- Constant propagation for `__shfl*`.
- Improved program startup time in the presence of CUDA translation units with no device code.
- Improvements to `i1` vectorisation.
- Don't discard `__builtin_provable` too early when doing LTO or building bitcode libraries.

### NVCC Compatibility

- Support for `__shared__` and `__constant__` keywords an anonymous unions/structs.
- Allow `__device__` keyword to redundantly accompany `__shared__` or `__constant__`.
- Remove spurious warning about passing C++ pointers to memory ops.
- Commas in asm statement argument lists are, it turns out, optional.
- Support `forward-unknown-opts`.
- Correctly handle missing `template` keywords in more dependent name lookup scenarios.
- Tolerate wrong-sided access during constant evaluation.
- Cleaner diagnostics when handling redundant commas in the presence of multiple templates closing at once.
- Allow out-of-line redeclaration of namespaced template functions with conflicting signatures (this becomes an overload, when it should be a compile error).

## Inline PTX Support

- Support for undocumented syntax quirks, like spaces in the middle of directives.
- Support for a wider variety of constant expressions.
- Fix miscompilation of `min.xorsign.abs`.
- Fix miscompilation of `testp.finite` in `-ffast-math` mode.
- Correct behaviour of `dp4a/dp2a` in the presence of overflow.
- Correctly parse identifiers including `%` on asm blocks with no inputs/outputs.
- Fix miscompile of shifts/bmsk with extremely large shift amounts.
- Implement insane implicit asm-input conversion rules.
- Fix miscompiles in video instructions using min/max as the secondary op, since real behaviour
  turned out to differ from the manual.
- Avoid compiler crash when trying to constant-evaluate a PTX `n` input that has a type error.
- `tf32` support, via upcasting to `fp32`.
- Fix some corner cases of mixing vector splats with `_` operands.
- Fix crash parsing video byte selectors.
- Correctly handle implicit vector-of-vector types, because it turns out those are at least semantically a thing.
- Newly-supported instructions:
    * `cp.async.*`
    * `min/max`, 3-input edition.
    * `add/sub/mul/fma/cvt` with non-default rounding modes.
    * `mma/wmma` for sub-byte integer types.
    * `mma/wmma` for all remaining shapes, in all datatypes except fp8/6/4.
    * `red/atom` for vector types.
    * `cvt.pack`, 4-input edition.
    * `nanosleep`
- Newly-supported special registers:
    * `%globaltimer`
    * `%globaltimer_hi`
    * `%globaltimer_lo`
    * `%warpid`
    * `%nwarpid`
    * `%smid`
    * `%nsmid`

## Compiler Misc.

- Fixed compiler crash when doing `decltype(lambda)` in certain conditions.
- `__syncthreads_and()` and friends no longer use any shared memory.
- Improvements to compile speed, espeically in the presence of inline PTX. Extremely so in the presence of `mma/wmma`.

## Library: New APIs

See the [API diffs](https://docs.scale-lang.com/stable/manual/apis/) for precise information.

- Added most commonly-used NVML APIs.
- More `cuSOLVER/cuSPARSE`.
- Non-default-rounding-mode APIs (conversions and arithmetic).
- Added 1D CUarray copy APIs.
- Added device-side versions of device/context property query APIs (`cudaDeviceGetAttribute` etc).
- `bmma_sync`.
- `atomicAdd` for `float2` and `float4`.
- Added API for programmatically controlling SCALE's exception behaviour.

## Library: Fixes

- Allocator improvements prevent premature OOM due to address space fragmentation in long-running applications with a high level of memory churn.
- Fix const-correctness in coop-groups.
- Removed some macro leaks.
- `__sad()` now behaves correctly in the presence of integer overload.
- Fix bugs in FFT plan creation.
- Fix some edgecases relating to delting the active CUcontext before popping it.
- Fixed use of `cuCtxSetCurrent` when stack is empty
- Don't crash when unloading a module at the same time as launching one of its kernels.
- `scaleenv` now works with zsh, and does not pollute the shell environment.
- Endless tiny fixes, random macros, header compatibility tweaks, etc.
- Device PCI IDs now match the format of NVIDIA CUDA _exactly_.
- Fix some edgecases where denorms weren't being flushed, but should be.
- Stream creation is faster.
- Don't crash when the printf buffer is larger than 4GB.
- Fix rare hang when using the IPC APIs.
